# Gemini for Google Workspace

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249

[TOC]

## 01: Introduction to Gemini for Google Workspace

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/888

### Introduction to Gemini for Google Workspace

#### Introduction to Gemini for Google Workspace

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/888/video/481172

Hello and welcome to the course. This course is the first in a series of courses on Gemini for Google Workspace. Throughout the series, you learn how to use generative AI tools to develop and refine content in Gmail and Google Docs. You also learn how to create images with Google Slides and create plans for projects within Google Sheets. Finally, you explore using Google Meet to create custom meeting backgrounds. This course introduces you to Generative AI and helps you understand its potential, challenges, and limitations. We outline the main Gemini features, highlight how we're protecting your data and privacy, and help you get the most out of Gemini. As you gain familiarity with the generative AI capabilities in Google Workspace, you assume the role of a sales representative for Cymbal Retail. In your sales role, you pitch your company's latest product by emailing potential prospects, writing a blog post, and delivering a virtual demo. By taking these courses, you gain confidence using generative AI tools to achieve your business outcomes. As a note, this training focuses on features that are only available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. You might find that some features aren't available in your Google Workspace edition or other features might be restricted by administrative policies. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### What is Generative AI?

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/888/video/481173

Gemini for Workspace uses generative AI to help you work more efficiently across the Google Workspace apps. But what is generative AI? First, let's define AI. Artificial intelligence, or AI, is a set of technologies that enable computers to perform various advanced functions. Examples include the ability to see, understand, and translate spoken and written language, analyze data, and make recommendations. Generative AI is a subset of AI that refers to the use of AI to create new content, like text, images, audio, and videos. To use generative AI, you provide a prompt to the system, and it generates a response based on what you gave it. A prompt is a piece of information that is provided to a user or system to initiate or guide a process. It can be a question, statement, or set of instructions. The system takes your prompt and uses it to generate an output, such as text, images, audio, or video. The type of output that is generated depends on what your prompt requests and the capabilities of the system. As a rapidly expanding technology, generative AI has a wide range of potential applications. However, with any new technology, evolving capabilities and uses create the potential for risks and complexities. There are some well-known risks of generative AI that organizations need to think through. One example is hallucination. Hallucination is a generated response from an AI application that might seem coherent and confidently presented but that could be biased or not based on factuality. Hallucinations can be reduced but are currently very difficult to eliminate. Thus, companies might choose to build workflows that include human reviewers to mitigate risks. For example, for brand safety, a company might want to review generated ads before they go live. At Google, our AI principles describe our commitment to developing technology responsibly and work to establish specific application areas we will not pursue. We also have robust privacy commitments that outline how we protect user data and prioritize privacy for Google Workspace. Generative AI does not change our foundational privacy protections for giving users choice and control over their data. For more information on Google's AI principles and data privacy policies, go to the additional resources document included in this course. As this field progresses, we continue to evolve our tools to reduce any risks.

#### Gemini for Google Workspace Features

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/888/video/481174

Now that you have a broad understanding of generative AI, let's discuss Gemini for Google Workspace. Gemini lets you use generative AI technology easily. Specifically in Google Workspace, you can use Gemini as a collaborator to: Write and refine text. Create original images. Organize data and optimize project flows. And also connect with colleagues and clients. Using Gemini features can help you focus on high-value activities, Instead of repetitive tasks, Which empowers you to improve your business outcomes. These tools can be useful for people in various roles and business units like marketing, sales, customer service, and human resources, or HR. Marketing teams can use Gemini to: Draft creative and engaging content for marketing materials based on the audience. Organize and act on data faster to spot customer trends. And generate compelling visuals to improve marketing presentations. Sales representatives can use Gemini to: Draft informative and personalized emails and sales documents. Improve customer video calls and engage with real-time translations. Organize and act on historical sales data faster. And generate compelling visuals for customer-facing pitch decks. Customer service teams can use Gemini to: Quickly generate high-quality, personalized responses to customers. Translate languages in real time during video conferences. And summarize customer call transcripts to add to the team's knowledge base. HR professionals can use Gemini to: Write job descriptions for open positions based on simple prompts. Personalize candidate outreach. Summarize employee benefits or handbook information. And quickly draft questions to prepare for interviews. Gemini is a powerful tool that can enhance your productivity in many different ways when used properly. Remember, generative AI tools including Gemini, might suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. Don't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial, or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views, and should not be attributed to Google. Congratulations on completing the course! We hope you enjoyed this introduction to Gemini for Google Workspace. Subsequent courses delve further into the features mentioned in this lesson, and you'll have the opportunity to practice what you learned.

### Your Next Steps

## 02: Gemini in Gmail

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/896

### Gemini in Gmail

#### Introduction to Gemini in Gmail

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/896/video/483561

Hello and welcome to the Gemini for Google Workspace series. This course introduces you to Gemini in Gmail, which lets you write and refine emails by using AI. You learn how to use Help me write, our new AI writing tool in Gmail, to create a message from scratch, or refine what you've already written. You then complete a hands-on activity acting as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail, writing an email to a potential customer by using Gemini. Features in Gemini in Gmail use generative AI to help you work more efficiently. Remember, generative AI tools including Gemini, may suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. You shouldn't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views, and should not be attributed to Google. Please note that this training focuses on features available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. You might find that some features aren't available in your Google Workspace edition or other features might be restricted by administrative policies. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### Draft an Email with Gemini

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/896/video/483562

You can easily access Gemini in Gmail by visiting gmail.com in your browser. Alternatively, you can use Gemini in the Gmail app, which you can download on Android and iOS devices. If you haven't already, open your Gmail inbox and click the Compose button to open a new message window. In the toolbar, click Help me write. You can select various options, including an option for 'Help me write' and different options for refining your draft email. In this lesson, you learn how to use the 'Help me write' feature to create a new email message. To open a text input where you can type your prompt, select Help me write. Perhaps you work in human resources, or HR, and you'd like to inform all employees about a new benefit. You can ask Gemini to write an email to the entire company to announce the change. The prompt can include information that describes the new benefit, who it applies to, and when it will become available. If you're in IT, consider asking Gemini to email employees highlighting the latest software updates that the IT team launched. Or maybe you're in sales and you need help with drafting personalized emails. Ask Gemini to email a thank you note after a productive meeting. You can specify the topic of discussion and the tone you want to convey. Regardless of your role, it's important to provide a descriptive prompt to help Gemini understand what you're looking for. To help Gemini to better understand your expectations, avoid using jargon or technical language. Also, you can provide examples of the type of content you're looking for. After you type your prompt, click Create. You might need to wait a few moments for Gemini to generate a response. If you like what's suggested, you can insert it into your email message. If you want to improve the generated response, you can select Recreate to try the prompt again. Alternatively, you can choose to further refine the suggested text or update the prompt you provided. In the next lesson, you learn more refining text using Gemini.

#### Refine Prompts and Drafts

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/896/video/483563

In this demo, you explore improving your prompts and refining text by using Gemini in Gmail. You learn how to: Edit a prompt to improve the result, and also Formalize, elaborate, and shorten a draft. Suppose you are a human resources manager looking to send a company-wide personnel announcement to welcome the new VP of marketing. First, create a draft using Gemini in Gmail Open Gmail, select Compose, and then click Help Me Write. In the toolbar that appears, select Help me write. Type the prompt. You can choose something like 'Welcome the new VP of Marketing.' Then, click Create. If you like the message, select Insert. Otherwise, you can edit the original prompt to help generate a new response that better meets your expectations. Now, edit the prompt The original prompt was 'Welcome the new VP of Marketing,' and Gemini created a personalized message to the new VP. However, the goal was actually to share the news with many people. Rewrite the prompt to clarify who the audience is. To edit the prompt, click the Help me write input box, type your changes, and then click Update. For example, you can change the prompt to 'Write an email announcement to the company that welcomes the new VP of Marketing.' Notice how Gemini has created a more appropriate email. You can fine-tune your prompts if the results don't meet your expectations or if you believe it needs improvement. For example, you can add details like tone, length, recipient and topic. Next, refine a draft Gemini in Gmail can refine text, including text that you have already written or text that was previously created with Help me write. To refine text you've already written, navigate to the Help me write toolbar. Select Refine. To change the tone of your message to be more appropriate for a business context, select Formalize. If you want to make the text longer, select Elaborate. However, if the text is already too long, select Shorten, to reduce the length of the existing email. Then, you can click Insert to add the text to the body of your email message.

#### Activity Explained

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/896/video/483564

Now it's your turn to give it a try. In the following activity, you act as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail, and you must email potential prospects about the company's newest product. Practice using Gemini in Gmail to generate a draft email and refine the message.

### Your Next Steps

## 03: Gemini in Google Docs

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914

### Gemini in Google Docs

#### Introduction to Gemini in Google Docs

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914/video/484002

Hello and welcome to Gemini in Google Docs, a course in our Gemini for Google Workspace series. This course introduces you to the specific Docs features included in Gemini for Google Workspace. You learn how to use Help me write in Docs to write new text, or refine existing text. You also explore how to use proofread to check your grammar and spelling or get stylistic suggestions. You then complete a hands-on activity acting as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail, writing a blog post about the new product. Gemini in Google Docs uses generative AI to help you work more efficiently. Remember, generative AI tools including Gemini, might suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. Don't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial, or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views, and should not be attributed to Google. As a note, this training focuses on features that are only available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. You might find that some features aren't available in your Google Workspace edition or other features might be restricted by administrative policies. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### Create Content with Gemini

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914/video/484003

You can access Gemini in Docs by opening a Google Docs document on your desktop. If you haven't already, visit docs.google.com in your browser. To edit an existing Google Docs document, select the document. To create a new document, select the Blank template in the template gallery. You can also create a new document by typing docs.new into your desktop browser. In this lesson, you learn how to use the 'Help me write' feature to create text-based content. When you open a new document, you may be prompted with multiple options to quickly get started writing. Select Help me write. If you're working on an existing document, you can access the Help me write prompt options from the left margin of your document. A text input will open where you can enter your prompt. Suppose you work in marketing for the athletic footwear division and would like some inspiration for an upcoming social campaign. You can use "Help me write" in Docs to help you brainstorm a captivating tagline or draft social media posts by providing a prompt like: 'Generate 3 social media posts that highlight the benefits of our athletic shoes with a focus on comfort and performance.' If you work in sales, you can use Gemini to help you prepare for a meeting with a high-profile client. For example, you can ask Gemini to write 5 thoughtful questions to ask a VP of Merchandising about their strategy for the upcoming year. Or maybe you're in human resources and want to revamp the new employee onboarding experience for financial analysts. Ask Gemini to create an onboarding checklist for the Finance team to quickly develop an important part of the new training program. If you're in customer support, consider asking Gemini to summarize a transcript saved as a Google Docs document. Gemini can help you quickly summarize the troubleshooting steps already taken and provide a bulleted list of action items. After you type your prompt, click Create. You might need to wait a few moments for Gemini to generate a response. If you like what's suggested, click Insert to add it to your document. If you want to improve the generated response, you can choose to refine the generated text or update the prompt you provided. You learn more about refining generated responses in the next lesson.

#### Edit Prompts and Refine Text

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914/video/484004

In this demo, you explore how you can use Gemini in Docs to quickly brainstorm new ideas and draft documents. You learn how to: Edit a prompt. And refine generated text. Imagine you're an IT employee at a company with a hybrid work environment. You're interested in using Gemini to generate a list of frequently asked questions about technical problems that can arise when working from home. First, create content by using Gemini in Docs Open a new Google Docs document, and select Help Me Write. Type the prompt. You can choose something like 'Write an FAQ document about challenges working from home.' Then, click Create. If you like the message, select Insert. Otherwise, you can edit the original prompt to help generate a new response that better meets your expectations. Now, edit the prompt To change the prompt, click the field that contains your prompt and type the desired changes. The original prompt was 'Write an FAQ document about challenges working from home.' Gemini created a list of broad concerns that are not specific to technical issues. However, the goal was to help employees troubleshoot and resolve common technical issues. Rewrite the prompt to clarify to provide Gemini with more context. To edit the prompt, click the Help me write input box, type your changes, and then click Update. Change the prompt to 'Write 10 frequently asked questions and answers about technology issues when working from home.' Notice how Gemini has created a more appropriate list. You can fine-tune your prompts if the results don't meet your expectations or if you believe there's room for improvement. Regardless of your role, it's important to provide a descriptive prompt to help Gemini understand what you're looking for. To help Gemini to better understand your expectations, avoid using jargon or technical language. Also, you can provide examples of the type of content you're looking for. Regardless of your role, it's important to provide a descriptive prompt to help Gemini understand what you're looking for. To help Gemini to better understand your expectations, avoid using jargon or technical language. Also, you can provide examples of the type of content you're looking for. Next, refine a draft. Gemini in Docs can refine text, including text that you already wrote or text that was previously created with Help me write. To rewrite your text, select the text and open the 'Help me write' options. To change the tone of the text to be more appropriate for your desired context, select Tone, and then select Casual or Formal as appropriate. To provide an overview of the entire document or a section of the document, select Summarize. If you want to make the text longer, select Elaborate. However, if the text is already too long, select Shorten, to reduce the length of the existing text. If you want to change the word choice in something you already wrote, select Rephrase. You can also use the rephrase option to change the wording of text generated by Gemini that you've already inserted into your document.

#### Proofread Documents

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914/video/484005

You can use Proofread as your personal editor to ensure that your document is polished and professional before you share it with others. Aside from grammar and spelling suggestions, Proofread evaluates your word choice, use of active voice, conciseness, and sentence structure. To use Proofread, open the document you want to review and click Proofread this document in the toolbar. You can also access Proofread from the tools menu. After the panel is open, you can review each suggestion and decide whether you want to approve or reject it. To approve a change, select Accept suggestion. To reject it, select Dismiss suggestion. If you want to focus on one area of improvement at a time, you can filter suggestions according to the issue category. To manage what Proofread checks for, open the proofread settings menu. By default, all checks are enabled, but you can choose to clear any options that you want. Note: If you change your Proofread settings, those updates apply to all of your documents. After you have finished reviewing the suggestions, you can click the Close button to exit the panel. Even if the panel is closed, Proofread continues working in the background. If issues in your writing are detected, the icon will include a blue dot to indicate that proofread suggestions are available.

#### Activity Explained

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/914/video/484006

Now it's your turn to give it a try. In the following activity, you act as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail. You're assigned to write a blog post about the company's newest product. Practice how to use Gemini in Docs to generate a draft blog post and refine the generated text.

### Your Next Steps

## 04: Gemini in Google Slides

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/931

### Gemini in Google Slides

#### Introduction to Gemini in Google Slides

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/931/video/483843

Hello and welcome to Gemini in Google Slides, a course in the Gemini for Google Workspace series. This course introduces you to the specific Google Slides features included with Gemini. You learn how to use Gemini in Slides to generate visuals in different styles for your presentations. You will then complete a hands-on activity acting as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail, creating a product demo presentation by using Gemini. Gemini in Slides uses generative AI to help you work more efficiently. Remember, generative AI tools including Gemini, might suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. Don't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial, or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views, and should not be attributed to Google. As a note, this training focuses on features that are only available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. You might find that some features aren't available in your Google Workspace edition or other features might be restricted by administrative policies. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### Generate an Image with Gemini

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/931/video/483844

You can easily access Gemini in Google Slides by visiting slides.google.com in your browser. If you haven't already, open an existing presentation or start a new presentation. In this lesson, you learn how to use the image generation feature to create unique visuals for your presentation. In the toolbar, select Create image with Gemini. In addition to being able to access 'Create image with Gemini' from the toolbar, you can also access this feature by going to the Google Slides menu. Choose Insert, Image, Create image with Gemini. You can also right-click on any image and choose Replace image, Create image with Gemini. A sidebar opens for creating an image with Gemini. In the sidebar, is a text input for describing your idea for the image. This is where you enter your prompt. Perhaps you are in sales and creating a slide deck to pitch your new laundry folding robot. You want to show the need for your product by explaining how much laundry affects people. You want to do this by showing a visual of messy laundry all over a room. The prompt to generate this image can include information about the type of room, where the messy laundry is located, and more. For example, 'Messy primary bedroom filled with unfolded laundry all over the floor, bed, and cabinets'. Or perhaps you work in human resources and are creating a presentation for training warehouse workers on proper safety in the warehouse. You want to add an image showing hands putting on working gloves. The prompt to generate this image can include the type of gloves, and a description of the setting. For example, 'Hands putting on work gloves in a warehouse.' Regardless of the visual you're trying to generate, it's important to provide a descriptive prompt to help Gemini understand what you're looking for. A descriptive prompt might include specifics such as the subject, setting, distance to the subject, materials, Or background. After you type your prompt, click Create. You might need to wait several seconds for Gemini to generate a response. Depending on your prompt, you will usually receive a few visual options. When you find a suggested image that you like, select the image to insert it into your slide. As you generate images, you might need to refine your prompt to meet your needs. To do this, edit the text input and choose Create again. In the next lesson, we walk through creating and refining a prompt and selecting a style for your image.

#### Choose a Style for Your Images

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/931/video/483845

In this demo, you explore improving your prompts and adding a style to your graphics by using Gemini in Google Slides. You learn how to: Refine a prompt to improve the result. Add a style to your prompt to generate images in a particular style. First, create an image by using Gemini in Slides Suppose you're a marketing manager at a dog food business trying to use Gemini to create fun graphics for your team to motivate them during a meeting. Open Slides and open an existing presentation or start a new blank presentation, then select Create image with Duet AI. In the text input, type the prompt. In this case, you can choose: 'Dog saying we can do it.' Then, click Create. You have now generated multiple images using Duet AI, but these images may not fully suit the use case. You can edit the original prompt to help generate new responses that fit better. Now, refine the prompt. To edit the prompt, click the field that contains your prompt and type the desired changes. Edit the prompt so that it provides more details on your desired visual. Specify the type of dog, and that it's holding a sign with the desired words 'We can do it!'. This will give Duet AI more context for your needs. The new prompt can be: 'A bulldog holding a sign with the text 'We can do it!' The new images should now be much closer to your needs. Lastly, pick a style for your images. Perhaps you don't want your presentation visuals to be so photorealistic, and prefer more of a graphical, cartoon look. In addition to the text input, you can also choose to Add a style. This is another input that lets you choose the visual style of the outputs provided by Duet AI. You can add styles such as Photography, Sketch, Vector Art, Watercolor, or more. These styles are then applied to the output visuals. After selecting a style, choose Create to see new images in that style. In this case, you want a less photorealistic look so you can choose Vector art as the style, and then select Create again. With a few refinements and specifications to your prompt, you can get your desired image for your presentation. You can then select the image for it to be added to your slide.

#### Activity Explained

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/931/video/483846

Now it's your turn to give it a try. In the following activity, you act as a Sales representative for Cymbal Retail. You start to create a sales demo presentation for the company's newest product. Practice how to use Gemini in Slides to generate an image for your presentation.

### Your Next Steps

## 05: Gemini in Google Sheets

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/905

### Gemini in Google Sheets

#### Introduction to Gemini in Google Sheets

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/905/video/484526

Hello and welcome to Gemini in Google Sheets, a course in the Gemini for Google Workspace series. This course introduces you to the specific Google Sheets features included with Gemini. You learn how to use Gemini in Sheets to generate tables. You then complete a hands-on activity where you act as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail and create a project plan. Gemini in Sheets uses generative AI to help you work more efficiently. Remember, generative AI tools including Gemini might suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. Don't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial, or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views and should not be attributed to Google. As a note, this training focuses on features that are only available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. You might find that some features aren't available in your Google Workspace edition or other features might be restricted by administrative policies. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### Create Plans and Trackers

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/905/video/484527

You can easily access Gemini in Google Sheets by visiting sheets.google.com in your browser. If you haven't already, open a new blank spreadsheet. In this lesson, you will learn how to use the table generation feature to create templates. In the toolbar, select Help me organize. You can access the 'Help me organize' feature from the toolbar or the Google Sheets menu. Choose Insert > Help me organize. A sidebar opens for creating a template with Gemini. In the sidebar, is a text input for describing your idea for the template. This is where you enter your prompt. Perhaps you work in human resources, or HR, and are creating a template to track job candidates' preferences based on their initial interview with a recruiter. The prompt to generate this template can include the general request to track candidate responses and the type of topics you want to track. For example, 'Recruiting tracker for candidates answering questions during interviews on their desired location, level (entry, mid, senior), and salary' Or perhaps you work in marketing and you want to create a template for forecasting budgets for your team. The prompt to generate this can start out generic to give you ideas. For example, 'Budget forecasting for marketing. Include at least 15 rows.'. Gemini in Sheets is used for generating spreadsheets and tables. It does not currently handle formatting or generating formulas, text, or images. Gemini in Sheets is most helpful when you have a generic idea of the type of template you are interested in, but maybe haven't thought through all the details yet. To get the best results from your prompt, provide instructions instead of questions. When you provide more details in your prompt, the result can be more specific to your use-case. For example, you can specify how many rows you want included in your template. After you type your prompt, click Create. You might need to wait several seconds for Gemini to generate a response. A preview of your result will display in your spreadsheet. Choose Insert to have the generated table inserted into your spreadsheet. When the data is inserted, you can begin making any edits to get your final desired results and start filling in the template to your needs. Note that if you try to insert the generated table into a spreadsheet with existing data, a pop-up will appear. It will ask if you prefer to overwrite the current data or to insert your template in a new sheet. Overwriting will delete existing data on your sheet. It is best practice to use Help me organize in a new blank spreadsheet and then copy the result over to existing spreadsheets. In the next lesson, we walk through creating and refining a prompt for your template.

#### Create and Refine Template Prompts

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/905/video/484528

In this demo, you explore improving your template prompts by providing additional details. You learn how to: Create a prompt. And refine a prompt to improve the result. First, create a template by using Gemini in Sheets Suppose you work in customer service and noticed a lot of customers are calling in about the same issue. They are all experiencing loading delays or complete freezes on different webpages on the company website. You want to track this information for the product team. Open Sheets and open a new blank spreadsheet, then select Help me organize. In the text input, type the prompt. In this case, you can choose: 'Track how long customers are stuck on a webpage.' Click Create. You might need to wait several seconds for Gemini to generate a response. Now, refine the prompt You notice that the template tracks duration, but you also want to track whether the customer is still stuck on the webpage or if the new page eventually loaded. Before refining a prompt, remember that you will lose your current output if you input a new prompt. For this reason, it is best to consider whether the generated template meets your needs. If it completely misses what you are looking for, you can refine your prompt and generate a new template. If you like aspects of the template, click Insert to add the template to your spreadsheet. Then you have two choices. You can simply edit the spreadsheet yourself, or you can refine your prompt and generate a new template. To refine the prompt, open Help me organize again and enter your new prompt. Edit the prompt so that it provides more details on your desired template. The new prompt can be: 'Track how long customers are stuck on a webpage and if they are still stuck.' Then, click Create. You can now see that there is another column that gives options for the status of the issue: Stuck or Not Stuck. Lastly, insert and edit your template After you are happy with the result, you can insert the template. A pop-up will appear. It will ask if you prefer to overwrite the current data or to insert your template in a new sheet. Overwriting will delete existing data on your sheet. Choose Overwrite data. After it is inserted in your spreadsheet, you can make additional edits. For example, you might want the user column to track customer emails instead of customer IDs. You also might want to add a column tracking the name of the support agent who helped the customer. All of these edits can be made as usual by using your Google Sheets tooling.

#### Activity Explained

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/905/video/484529

Now it's your turn to give it a try. In the following activity, you will act as a sales representative for Cymbal Retail. You will start to create a sales plan for the company's newest product. Practice using Gemini in Sheets to generate a plan for your sales motion.

### Your Next Steps

## 06: Gemini in Google Meet

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943

### Gemini in Google Meet

#### Introduction to Gemini in Google Meet

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943/video/503765

Hello and welcome to Gemini in Google Meet, a course in the Gemini for Google Workspace series. This course introduces you to the specific Meet features included with Gemini. You learn how to create meeting backgrounds, enhance audio-visual quality, translate captions during a meeting, and take meeting notes with Gemini in Google Meet. Gemini in Meet uses generative AI to help you work more efficiently. Remember, generative AI tools, including Gemini, might suggest inaccurate or inappropriate information. Don't rely on Gemini features as medical, legal, financial, or other professional advice. It's also important to remember that the Gemini feature suggestions don't represent Google's views, and should not be attributed to Google. As a note, this training focuses on features that are only available to users with the Gemini Enterprise add-on. If you have questions, contact your Google Workspace Administrator.

#### Generate a Background Image using Gemini

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943/video/503766

In this demo, you explore how to create a custom background using Gemini in Google Meet. You'll also learn how to add a style to your image. Imagine you're an IT consultant and a client has scheduled a last minute meeting to discuss their new project, but your office is a mess. You want to project a professional image and also want to create a strong connection with them from the start. They are headquartered in Brazil and you want to think about changing your background to something more thematic. Instead of searching the web for an image, you can save time by creating a generative AI meeting background. You can easily access Gemini in Google Meet by joining a video meeting on your desktop computer using your preferred method like a meeting link or calendar invite. For this lesson, visit meet.google.com in a desktop browser. To begin, join a Google Meet video conference. From the New meeting button, you're presented with three options. You can create a meeting for later, start an instant meeting, or schedule a meeting in Google Calendar. Select start an instant meeting. Second, generate a background After you join the meeting, access the Effects panel by clicking More options, and then selecting Apply visual effects. In the Backgrounds section, select Generate a background. In the sidebar is a text input for describing your idea for the image. This is where you enter your prompt. You can type "Brazilian flag." After you type your prompt, click Create samples. You might need to wait several seconds for Gemini to generate a response. Depending on your prompt, you will usually receive a few visual options. Select the image you want to use and notice how your meeting background changes to the new image. Alternatively, as a customer service manager, you might want to commemorate your team's success in boosting customer satisfaction. With Gemini in Meet, you can create a celebratory meeting background to uplift the team spirit and acknowledge their success. Regardless of the visual you're trying to generate, it's important to provide a descriptive prompt to help Gemini understand what you want. A descriptive prompt can include specifics such as the setting, materials, or color. In addition to the text input, you can also choose to add a style. This is another input that lets you choose the visual style of the outputs provided by Gemini. You can choose from styles including Photography, Sci-fi, Fantasy, and 3D animation. These styles are then applied to the generated visuals. Now, apply a style. You can use a prompt like, 'A vibrant confetti explosion against a backdrop of a cityscape' to generate your desired image. Perhaps you don't want your backgrounds to be so photorealistic, and prefer more of a graphical, cartoon look. To create a futuristic looking visual, click the dropdown next to 'No style' and select Sci-fi. After selecting a style, choose Create other samples to generate new images in that style. After generating the new images, review the output. To change your background, select 'Use this background.'

#### Improve Your Video and Audio Experience

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943/video/503767

Gemini in Meet helps ensure that you can be seen and heard by your audience with features like 'studio look' and translated captions. The studio look feature in Meet uses Google's AI to help improve your video quality and fixes issues caused by low light or low quality webcams. You can get custom adjustments with one click, without the need for an expensive and complex audio-visual setup. When you first join a scheduled Google Meet video conference, you are added to a green room' a virtual space that lets you preview and adjust your audio, video, and environment before joining a meeting. You can access the option to turn on 'studio look' while you're still in the green room. In your preview tile, click More, then, click Apply visual effects. If you've already joined a meeting, navigate to the Meet controls, click More, then click Apply visual effects. When you're in the Effects menu, click Appearance, and then select Studio look. Enhancing video quality helps set the stage for clear communication, ensuring that you are seen clearly. In addition to improving video quality, you can enhance your video conferences by using translated captions with Gemini in Meet. With real-time caption translation, you can break down language barriers, foster global collaboration and create a more inclusive environment. Suppose you are joining a meeting with Google Meet with mostly French coworkers. Although you speak French pretty well, you aren't a native speaker and don't want to constantly ask your coworkers to translate for you. You want to ensure that you can understand the full conversation. With translated captions, speakers can speak in their preferred language and you can still follow along. As you join the meeting, you can turn on French to English translated captions to help you understand and follow along with the conversation. In the Meet controls, select More options, then select Settings. Click Captions to open the list of options. Turn on Captions, and then select the language of the meeting. Next, turn on Translated captions and choose the language to translate into. Please note: The captions are only visible to you. Additionally, each attendee can choose their preferred language for captions.

#### Take Meeting Notes with Gemini

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943/video/503768

Imagine you're in an important brainstorming session with several colleagues and you volunteered as the meeting scribe. Everyone is mentioning good ideas, but you're struggling to quickly type the meeting notes and capture everything that has been stated. Unfortunately, you've been so busy typing that you haven't been able to add your own valuable ideas to the conversation. With 'Take notes for me' in Google Meet you can automatically capture meeting notes and share them using Google Docs. When taking notes using Gemini in Meet, you'll need to decide whether you want to create a new document or use an existing document for your meeting notes. Perhaps you have a document that's been used in the past that you'd like to use for note taking during this call. Before the meeting, attach your existing notes as a Google Docs file to your Calendar invite. To start taking notes, you must first join a Meet video conference. After you've joined the meeting, click Take notes for me. Select the file, then click Start taking notes. After the meeting, Gemini will add the notes from the meeting to the beginning of your chosen file. If you don't have an existing notes document that you'd like to add to, select Start taking notes to create a new file in the meeting organizer's Drive. After the meeting, a summary of the ideas discussed and any action items mentioned will be added to the document. If you choose the option to create a new doc for meeting notes, be aware that it will be subject to your Domain's Google Drive retention policies. 'Take notes for me' does not follow Google Meet retention policies. During the meeting you can turn Take notes for me on or off if there's content you don't want recorded. However, whichever document you choose when you first turn it on will be the meeting notes document for the entire meeting. After you turn on this feature, let everyone know you use Gemini in Meet to take notes. Google Meet informs all meeting participants that notes are being taken and a blue pencil icon appears on all participants' screens. At this time, meetings must be conducted in spoken English for this feature to work.

#### Activity Explained

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/943/video/503769

Now it's your turn to give it a try. In the following activity, you will act as a sales representative for Cymbal retail. You will prepare to deliver a virtual sales demo to prospective customers about the company's newest product. Practice using Gemini in Meet to generate a background, turn on translated captions, and take meeting notes.

### Your Next Steps

## 07: Gemini in Google Drive

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/1135

### Gemini in Google Drive

#### Introduction to Gemini in Google Drive

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/1135/video/499543

#### Ask Gemini about a file

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/1135/video/499544

You can easily access Gemini in Google Drive by visiting drive.google.com in your browser and selecting Ask Gemini in the toolbar. You can also use Gemini by right-clicking on a file within Google Drive and selecting the Ask Gemini option. That sounds convenient! I haven't tried it yet. How do I use it? If you haven't already, open Google Drive on your computer and open the Gemini in Drive side panel. In the side panel that appears, you can select a suggested prompt or create your own. I'll teach you how to use Gemini in Drive to search for a specific file or ask a question about a file. First, you enter a prompt into the text input. What should my prompt say? The prompt should describe what you want to do. So for example, the clothing retail company was frequently searching for files that they didn't remember the title or location of. Let's say you wanted to find a presentation you remembered creating on this quarter's sustainable fashion goals. You simply type: find the most recent presentation about sustainable fashion goals And then click Enter. Gemini generates a list of results and you can click on the relevant file. To see more results, just click Show more. Clicking Show more moves the search to the main Google Drive window. If you know what file you are working with, you can also ask Gemini to summarize a file. This feature would be helpful for saving time when I don't need all the details of a full document. There are two ways to do this. If the file is currently displayed in the main Google Drive window, you can drag and drop the document into the side panel. Another way is just to enter a prompt: 'summarize this document,' and then include a link to the document. You can also reference the document by @ mentioning it. Simply type "@" in the prompt field and begin typing the file name. Select the desired file from the list of suggestions and press Enter to execute your prompt. Click View more to see the full generated summary. To generate a new Gemini response, you can simply click Retry. Alternatively, you can click Retry with Google Search which I'll explain in more detail later on. You might have noticed that Gemini is keeping track of your messaging history as you continue to prompt. Closing the side panel clears your messaging history.

#### Refine prompts with Gemini in Drive

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/1135/video/499545

I tried using it on my own, but I didn't quite get the result I wanted. How can I create the best prompts? As you use the tool more, you will get used to what works better or worse, but you can get started by using suggested prompts. When you first open the side panel, it'll display some suggestions like Learn about a file, Summarize a topic, and Ask a question. To view more suggested prompts, in the Gemini in Drive toolbar, select More options, and then click More suggestions. Remember, Gemini uses your history as you continue with additional prompts. If you would like a fresh start when refining a prompt or entering a new prompt, make sure to clear your history by selecting Clear history in the More options menu. You can use Gemini to ask specific questions about a file. For example, the company I worked with, Cymbal Retail, had a file about their sustainable fashion project that mentioned various deadlines. To quickly keep abreast of the project progress, they asked Gemini questions about key dates and metrics, rather than opening the large file and searching for the information themselves. New project team members could also use Gemini to learn about other team initiatives mentioned in the file. For example, they asked 'Summarize Project Green Growth' to learn about another one of Cymbal Retail's long-term initiatives. Oh wow. That would be helpful even as a tenured team member. I'm frequently interacting with projects or teams I don't know much about and reading all their documentation in Drive takes time. So I can just ask Gemini questions about the documents? Exactly. Are there any general guidelines for how to write a prompt when you aren't using a suggestion? There are many resources out there for writing generative AI prompts, and those suggestions would work in Gemini in Drive as well, but, in general, the Google Workspace team recommends four quick tips for writing prompts: 1. Use natural language. Basically, just write as if you're speaking to another person and express complete thoughts in full sentences. 2. Be specific and iterate. Tell Gemini for Workspace what you need it to do. Do you need it to summarize? Write? Change the tone? Provide as much context as possible. 3. Be concise and avoid complexity. State your request in brief'but specific'language. Avoid jargon. 4. Make it a conversation with Gemini. Improve your prompts if the results don't meet your expectations or if you think there's room for improvement. Use follow-up prompts and an iterative process to enhance the results.

#### Synthesize information across multiple sources using Gemini in Drive

- https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/paths/249/course_templates/1135/video/499546

You learned how to write general prompts using Gemini in Drive, but there is another nice feature you can use for prompting in Drive that I have found super helpful. You can actually collect information across multiple documents at the same time. How would you go about doing that? I'll walk you through an example that was really relevant to my client, Cymbal Retail. A supplier manager at Cymbal Retail was responsible for finding a new sustainable packaging solution. She received several bids from various companies and saved them as files in her Drive. One company submitted theirs as a Google Docs file, another created a presentation, and the last company provided a spreadsheet. They were all quite long documents, so she wanted a way to quickly get the key points. She ended up using Gemini in Drive to analyze the information. All she had to do was reference the files in her prompt and then ask various questions about the documents. For example, she asked Gemini to: "Compare these three supplier proposals for sustainable packaging. Analyze pricing, terms, and product quality to identify the best option.' She then added the files by typing @ and then the file name and selecting the file name. This is where Gemini can be really helpful! By selecting multiple files and asking Gemini to analyze the information, you'll get a concise overview of the key points across all of them. Gemini summarized the different pricing models, terms of service, and product quality, just as the prompt requested. We now have the main ideas from all those documents without having to read them in detail. This can save you tons of time and help you focus on the most important information. That's great to know. Earlier, you mentioned that Gemini in Drive can also be used for web searches. Can you tell me a little more about when that would come in handy? Sometimes, the information you need isn't in your Drive. Maybe you want the latest research on non-toxic, plant-based dyes. Instead of leaving Drive, you can simply ask Gemini to search the web for you. Just type your question or keywords, and Gemini will provide relevant information from the web within the side panel. To do this, select the Retry with Google Search icon. Alternatively, you could input a prompt such as: research non-toxic plant-based dyes utilized in the textile industry from the web. It's like having a built-in search engine that also understands the context of your work. You can stay focused and get the information you need without switching between tabs or Google products. That sounds great. I'm also curious, is there a way to integrate Gemini with Drive and other Google Workspace products? Gemini can connect the dots! If you ask a question related to something in another app, Gemini can often find the answer. For instance, you could ask, "What did Albert say about the project timeline in our last email?" This is incredibly powerful because it helps you access information across all of your Workspace files and emails without having to hunt it down manually. It's like having a personal assistant who knows everything you've worked on. I was concerned the tool would be really challenging to use, but it seems straightforward. Yeah, that's basically all there is to it. Use prompts to search for files or ask questions about your files. Refine your prompts if you aren't getting what you are looking for, clear your history if you want to start over, and use the retry with Google Search button if you'd like to include information from Google Search. I have a practice sheet I had used with my clients for training if you are interested in practicing. Remember, you are only able to follow along with the activity if you see the 'Ask Gemini' icon in your Google Drive navigation bar. If you don't see it, or if you have any questions about your Google Workspace edition, you should ask your organization's Google Workspace administrator. Amazing! Thank you!

### Your Next Steps

