
# Conflict Resolution Courses

- https://www.linkedin.com/learning/conflict-resolution-foundations-4
- https://app.pluralsight.com/ilx/video-courses/minimizing-navigating-resolving-conflict

### Minimizing, Navigating, and Resolving Conflict During Change
- https://app.pluralsight.com/ilx/video-courses/minimizing-navigating-resolving-conflict/transcript
- By Alice Meredith

#### Course Overview

Hello, everyone. My name is Alice Meredith, and welcome to my course, Minimizing, Navigating, and Resolving Conflict During Change. I am a Senior Professional in Human Resources and a Certified Change Management Professional. We all recognize that conflict is unavoidable in any work environment, especially when change is taking place. Conflict, if left unattended, can escalate into larger concerns and hinder progress toward change goals. In this course, we are going to discuss strategies and techniques to help minimize the amount of conflict that comes with change. First, I'll review strategies and skills that help your team process emotions that are commonly associated with change. I'll then spend time reviewing key conflict resolution methods. These methods help leaders level up their ability in resolving conflict that is commonly associated with change. And we also review core leadership behaviors that level up a leader's ability to manage change more effectively. By the end of this course, you will have learned key skills to elevate your change leadership capabilities and be more equipped to manage both planned and unplanned change. Before beginning this course, you should be familiar with core leadership fundamentals. I hope you'll join me on this journey to learn more about defining and refining your change leadership capabilities in this course, Minimizing, Navigating, and Resolving Conflict During Change, here at Pluralsight. 2Minimize Conflict When Implementing Change27m 12s

#### Minimize Conflict When Implementing Change

Workplace conflict can range from minor differences of opinion to major disputes and can be caused by a variety of factors such as conflict in values, goals or communication breakdowns, competition for resources, and personality clashes can also lead to conflict. For many people working day to day in small or large work environments, attempting to reduce or manage the amount of conflict present is an essential skill. However, while eliminating strife may make for a more tranquil workplace environment, it can also limit the potential of business growth. A few of you perked up your heads and thought, say what? Did she just say that eliminating conflict can limit the business's growth? Yes, my friends, that is just what I said. Welcome to this course. My name is Alice Meredith, and I will be your facilitator. Whether you are new to your role as a people leader or a seasoned professional, the concepts covered in this learning session may be completely new or just a nice refresher course for our seasoned leaders. Whichever the case, I encourage you to not only taking the information I'll be sharing, but to share it back out, maybe with other leaders on your team or those you are developing into leaders. Sharing back out learnings we digest elevates our ability to retain information, and you get a stronger return on your invested time by elevating skills of your entire team. I've added additional resources to the Exercise files tab associated with this course here on Pluralsight's platform, and I share a vast amount of complementary resources on my personal website at alicemeredith.com. Feel free to browse and utilize these additional resources. Learnings shared in this course are ones I know if incorporated, practiced, and prioritized will elevate your abilities to minimize, navigate, and resolve conflict in your work environment. So if you're ready to level up your ability to manage conflict, get comfy, grab a beverage of choice, maybe a snack or two, then sit back, kick off your shoes, put up your feet, and recognize this next bit of time you'll spend watching this learning session will be time investing in your most valuable asset, yourself. Let's get learning.

#### Recognize Benefits of Conflict

Workplace conflict, when approached properly, can lead to new and innovative solutions and more cohesive relationships. Conflict is what brings strengths to teams, relationships, and processes. Stephen Covey said it best when he said, "Strength lies in differences, not in similarities." Conflict is a normal, necessary occurrence that often accompanies progress and development. Working through difficult situations can help build stronger relationships, introduce innovative solutions, and uncover hidden creative abilities in employees. When managed properly, conflict serves as a fantastic opportunity for teams to grow both professionally and personally. When different points of view is allowed and encouraged, it spurs innovation and diversity of thought. Without conflict, teams become stagnant. Conflict brings about opportunity and growth for individuals, groups, and organizations, Conflict initiates personal change. When disputing individuals engage in dialogue brought about by conflict, they are able to explore differing needs and beliefs. This exploration of new ideas and perspectives is what helps them move from rigidity in their own beliefs and allows for flexibility and enhanced open‑mindedness. And as most of us already know, conflict clarifies core issues, and it encourages us to change the way we look at things. When we do this, the things we look at change. Conflict invites us to see new insights, new opportunity, and to find new ways to do what we do just a little bit better. So yes, while it may seem counterintuitive, conflict is essential to organizational success. Even with this knowledge, it might still be tempting to try to eliminate conflict completely. This is not realistic or advisable. My goal is to teach leaders how to minimize conflict and learn to navigate through it and resolve it in a constructive way so that it can be used as a tool for growth rather than a hindrance to productivity. In my work of guiding other leaders through change, my focus is not on doing away with conflict, but rather on helping leaders minimize its negative impact and maximize its potential for positive change. Now, talking about the positive consequences of conflict is inspiring and motivating, and I hate to transition over to the negative impact that conflict brings with it, but we need to do that for just a minute. The negative impact of conflict shows when the parties disputing attempt to achieve their goals at the expense of others. The negative impact of conflict erodes cultures and impacts relationships, and it triggers low employee morale. It can impact team members' mental, emotional, and physical health. The impact of conflict unaddressed heightens when minor differences escalate into major conflicts. Conflict left unattended declines productivity and weakens business results, and it increases turnover of top talent. Conflict is a normal and essential part of the human condition that companies should work to leverage, not avoid. Conflict, when leveraged the right way, brings about positive and sustainable change.

#### Minimize Conflict by Promoting Change-readiness

We all recognize that effective leadership plays a crucial role in minimizing conflict within an organization, especially during times of change, the most crucial part a leader plays when leading changes in the prework stage. This is the work that's required to cultivate your team's change‑readiness skills and promote a change‑ready culture. Formal or informal change comes at us almost daily. It is imperative in today's ever‑evolving world that all industries, all companies, and organizations of all sizes prioritize the work needed to foster environments of change readiness. Cultivating a culture that is open to change takes time, and it cannot be achieved by following a simple checklist. If you haven't already begun this process, it's not too late to start, but it's important to act quickly. A change‑ready culture is reflected in the atmosphere and personality of an organization. When leaders foster a culture that is receptive to change, leaders minimize resistance and conflict when the change is introduced, right? Let's review now real quickly a few other benefits that a leader can realize when they create a culture of change readiness within their team or organization. Yes, yes, improved performance is at the top of the list, a powerful win for sure. When team members are comfortable with and prepared for change, they are able to adapt more quickly and effectively to new situations, and this, of course, leads to increased efficiency, productivity, and overall performance. Encouraging a culture of change readiness creates an environment where team members feel more comfortable proposing new ideas and approaches. This leads to greater innovation and creativity within the organization. Now for those who are aware of Google's history, they'll remember that Google experienced internal conflict between its co‑founders early on, but executive leaders recognized this as an opportunity for growth. They made use of different perspectives. They implemented autonomous teams, open communication, and created a culture of experimentation to improve their employee engagement and morale. This helped the company to become one of the most successful and influential tech companies in the world, known for its innovation, high employee satisfaction rate, and employee morale. By building a team that is prepared for change, a leader can help the organization become more resilient and better able to whether unexpected challenges or setbacks. The American outdoor clothing retailer Patagonia went through a period of internal conflict during the economic recession of 2008. This led to decreased sales. But instead of cutting costs, leadership doubled down on environmental sustainability and socially responsible business practices. This increased their leader's resilience, helped them weather the storm, and eventually led to sustainable business growth. When team members feel that their leaders are supportive of their growth and development and that the organization values adaptability and flexibility, it leads to increased job satisfaction and morale. Zappos, an online shoe and clothing retailer, went through a period of internal conflict a few years back. The leadership team saw this as an opportunity for growth. Today at Zappos, all employees are empowered to drive the company forward through a self‑managed organizational structure. This means that they are encouraged to identify opportunities within the organization and propose their own solutions without the need for approval from a manager or a chain of managers. This approach allows employees to take ownership of the responsibilities and have the freedom to achieve them in the way they see fit. This innovative pivot improved morale, which led to higher employee engagement and satisfaction scores. The company emerged stronger and quickly became a leader in the e‑commerce industry. A culture of change readiness can foster a more open and collaborative approach to decision making. As team members feel comfortable sharing their ideas and perspectives, this leads to better and more informed decisions. A change culture breathes life into or elevates engagement in planned and unplanned change. Now remember, the work of cultivating a change‑ready culture does not begin when a change is imminent, but rather, it is an ongoing process. Leaders who foster a culture that embraces and is ready for change develop teams that can more effectively navigate any obstacle that comes with change, and they adapt to new situations more easily. For more learnings on cultivating change‑ready cultures, follow my LinkedIn newsletter for more tips and techniques to help build change readiness within your team.

#### Minimize Conflict by Promoting Positive Attitudes Toward Change

Now the first key work needed to promote change readiness within your team is to promote positive attitudes toward change. Let's explore three ways you can promote a positive attitude towards change within your team. First is to help them see change as an opportunity. When changes occur, it's important for leaders to help their teams see the opportunities available rather than focus on potential challenges or difficulties. Presenting change as an opportunity to grow, learn new skills, and become more efficient can fuel optimism and excitement within team. It's also a great way to motivate employees while giving them something to look forward to instead of feeling overwhelmed by what lies ahead. Next is to help boost employee self‑confidence in their ability to get through the change. When facing periods of massive change, it's common for employees to feel weary or uncertain about what lies ahead. To help ease any worries they may have, encourage self‑confidence by letting them know that they are well equipped with the skills necessary to tackle whatever comes their way. Remind them that living life has already prepared them for the changing environment they now work in. Remind them they've been going through change since the moment they were born. From starting school, changing grades, and adapting to multiple teachers in one school day, to making new friends and losing old ones, moving from place to place, experiencing the loss of loved ones, and welcoming new family members, change is a constant presence in our lives. When we are faced with change at work, sometimes we make it more intimidating than it should be. Continual reminders to your teams that their life has already been a series of changes and has been preparing them for the ever‑changing world we live in and work in can boost their confidence in their own abilities. And the third way to promote positive attitudes toward change is by using humor. Sometimes using appropriate humor is one of the best ways to promote positivity around hard topics. Appropriate humor can lighten up conversations around difficult subjects like we just discussed, which helps keep people in good spirits while transitioning through periods of transformation. Regardless if it's individuals or entire teams going through changes together, humor also works as an effective coping mechanism, which reduces stress levels while making everyone more relaxed during challenging times like these. Humor helps to not only lighten the mood, but it helps transition conversations about change from something we fear and shy away from to it's just part of the norm. Hey, change is just what we do here at ABC company, for example. Using humor, such as cartoon images or memes, can help lighten the mood and reduce fear around change by creating a more relaxed and informal atmosphere. When you include humorous elements in your presentations or communication about change, it can help break the ice and make people more receptive to your message. Using humor to talk about change can help to build a sense of community and connection among team members. When people share a laugh together, it fosters a sense of camaraderie and encourages them to work together to navigate the the changes that are happening. Richard Branson, founder of the Virgin Group, is known for his charismatic, witty, and engaging personality. This has helped him lead his company through many changes. He connects well with people, creates a positive and optimistic atmosphere. He builds trust and loyalty among employees, shareholders, and customers. His humorous personality has helped build a strong company culture that focuses on creativity, innovation, and risk taking, all of which contribute to his company's success. Remember, promoting a positive attitude toward change isn't just about minimizing conflict. It's about empowering your team to embrace and thrive in the face of change.

#### Shifting Mindsets

When a change is announced in the workplace, it causes feelings of uncertainty among team members, right? Leaders play a key role in helping their teams navigate through company changes. Approaching change through an open and agile mindset minimizes potential conflicts between departments or individual team members who may have different opinions on what should be done next. Instead of clashing ideas or getting stuck in arguments about which solution is best for the organization, having an open mind allows each party to look at all possible options objectively before making decisions together. Now when it comes to implementing meaningful change in an organization, the leaders' mindset, our mindsets and attitudes, are critical components for success. Change can be challenging both on a personal level for individual members of the team, but also for the overall organization as a whole. This is why when leading change initiatives it is essential that leaders take a leader‑first approach. Yep, you heard me right. This is probably the only time you'll hear me say to take a leader‑first approach when leading change. A leader‑first approach reminds us of how important it is for the leader to understand, keep an open mind, and buy into the proposed changes themselves before attempting to lead their team through change. If a leader fails to get behind the changes they are advocating and push their team forward through a change initiative simply because they're expected to do so, this will quickly backfire and create an atmosphere of distrust and disconnect within the team. Due to the leader‑first approach I just mentioned, let's first explore shifting mindsets through an individual approach. We'll first do a self‑reflection exercise and explore what a closed mindset looks and feels like. The more we familiarize ourselves with what close‑mindedness is, the more aware we become as to how open‑minded we each are. Close‑minded people portray rigidity, which shows up as an unwillingness to consider alternatives or new ideas. If something has always been done one way, there's no room for change or growth, right? No, wrong, very wrong. Another sign that someone has a closed mindset is a lack of self‑awareness or inability or unwillingness to recognize their own biases and prejudices. This lack of self‑awareness could be impacting their view on reality. Fear of failure can also indicate that someone has a closed mindset. They may be hesitant to take risks or try something new because they don't want to make mistakes or face criticism from others if things don't go as planned. Close‑minded people rarely ask questions. People with open mindsets are more curious and willing to add ask questions in order to gain deeper insights into a topic or situation. They don't collaborate well. Having an open mind means being able to collaborate well with others even if they don't share your same point of view or beliefs about certain topics or issues. And close‑minded people rarely seek feedback. Open‑minded people seek feedback from others in order to improve their skill set and knowledge base. Now, if during that quick self‑review exercise you identified yourself as someone who needs to continue work on becoming more open‑minded, let's review some intentional practices a people leader can put into play to keep their own mindset agile and fluid as cultivating change‑ready cultures requires open‑minded leadership. Here are six techniques for you to expand and explore. These concepts help us as leaders work on shifting in our own individual mindsets. Remember, mindsets are fluid. Thank goodness, right? And we have the power to change our mindset at any given time. First is to learn to identify the current state your mind is in. If you're feeling a bit off by any situation, take time to reflect on the current beliefs you have about the situation, and learn to decide if that particular mindset is serving you or not. They there are times I am very open‑minded and other times I find myself very close‑minded and stubborn. Next is to pause and seek to understand the why you have that particular mindset. Uncovering the underlying reason for our mindset gives us clarity to why we may be feeling a certain way about a particular situation or change taking place. Then challenge your limiting beliefs. This reminds us to examine any thought or belief that we may have that could be hindering us from making progress in changing our mindset. These could range from true or false assumptions attached to a particular topic or beliefs embedded in us based on opinions of others. Then seek new perspectives and information sources. Look for different sources of information that may provide additional facts or new perspectives on the subject at hand. This broadens our understanding and challenges any pre‑existing notions on the matter that could hold us back from forming an open‑minded opinion on the topic at hand. Then replace old beliefs with new empowering ones. Once you've taken in all available information, evaluate each piece objectively and form new empowering beliefs based off this new knowledge that can help motivate yourself to progress through whatever changes are taking place around you. Then take action based on these new beliefs, actions that align with what it is that we want to accomplish in order to shift our mindset accordingly. We must be patient with ourselves and give ourselves grace in this process as we will make mistakes, and that is okay. Mindset work is an ongoing and ever‑evolving process. It's essential to keep in mind that no matter how much effort or preparation goes into shifting one's own mindset, mistakes are bound to happen along the way. We need to use our mistakes as learning opportunities to further grow and develop personally. Now remember, for people leaders listening, these steps can certainly guide us or remind us of giving our own mindset aligned with a change prior to sharing the change with your team, but don't forget to share and use these learnings with people you lead. These slides are attached to the Pluralsight learning session. If you lead a person or a group of people who you see struggle with close‑mindedness, during your next one on one share these six steps and challenge them to pick a particular belief or thought that hinders them from being more agile to change, and encourage them to work through these steps. And then don't forget to follow up with them during next one on one as people leaders, right? Developing, coaching, and guiding the teams that work for us has got to be our top priority. And lastly, don't forget that shifting one's mindset takes time and effort, so take pride in acknowledging every single step forward no matter how small it may seem. Too often we doubt our ability or the abilities of those we lead to truly shift their mindset. A common narrative of this is just who I am or this is how I'm wired, not much I can do about it plays in our minds. If you too see this narrative playing in your head, I encourage you to challenge it, fight against it. Early on in my career I promoted one of my top performers, Sarah, to a leadership role, but I soon noticed her resisting new ideas and rejecting feedback from her team, clear signs of a closed mind. I challenged her belief that abilities are set at birth, and I shared my own journey of growth and continually encouraged her to shift her mindset. Over time, Sarah began to change. I saw her embrace a growth mindset. She started encouraging her team to take risks and experiment with new ideas. She initiated 360 feedback surveys and started to take to heart ideas and recommendations I and her team shared with her. As a result, her team's performance improved, and her leadership skills flourished. As Sarah continued on in her career, she received multiple promotions that put her in a position where she was able to find great success, both for herself and her company. She and I talk often and reflect back on where she is today from where she started her leadership journey. She truly credits her accomplishments to the intentional work we did together to open her mind and break down internal barriers that were holding her back.

#### Influencing Open and Agile Mindsets

Okay, moving on. As leaders, once our mindset is fully in the right space with the change that is being introduced, it's then time to lean in and help influence others to have more agile and open mindsets. Let's look at four key drivers that influence open mindsets. Our first driver is to role model, which is why we just reviewed the importance of taking the leader‑first approach, as our own mindset has got to be in a good place before we'll be able to influence others to adapt their mindsets. This brings to my mind an old saying, you can put lipstick on a pig, but at the end of the day it's still a pig. Similarly, you can try to fake an open mindset, but your actions and behaviors will always reveal your true beliefs. Next, the team must have a solid understanding and conviction of what's expected of them. Clarity of message is key. When team members have both a solid understanding and conviction, it helps to shift their mindset from just completing tasks to being fully invested in the success of the overall team. Then comes confidence and skill building. This is pretty simple to understand. We each are more adaptable to change when we feel comfortable with our ability to do the things the change requires, right? So investing time and resources to provide training needed to help the team feel confident in their ability to accomplish what the change requires is crucial to shifting mindsets. And the last core driver that helps shift mindsets is when our teams see that systems and processes are designed to help them achieve and do the expected work. Reinforcement mechanisms should also include continued encouragement, recognition, and validation as our teams progress in the journey of change. Spending time on cultivating a culture of change by promoting positive attitudes about change and influence agile and open mindsets is truly the best approach to minimizing the amount of conflict that comes with change. Coming up, we continue our learnings in the next module. This is where we delve into learning concepts to help navigate through conflict that presents itself during times of change. See you on the flip side. 3Navigating Your Team Through Conflict That Comes When Going Through Change9m 43s

#### Navigating the Emotions of Change

Welcome back. Thank you for continuing your learning journey with me. In this module, we'll be exploring key skills to help navigate your teams through conflict when leading change. We all have memories from our childhood of conflict with those we love, most often with our siblings and playmates. Then, as teens, we began to engage in conflict with parents, teachers, and our peer group, and we started learning how to respond while navigating powerful emotions. These conflict experiences taught us lessons about rejection and bargaining as we started standing up for more of what we wanted or for what we believed in. We engage in conflict in our work environments with supervisors and coworkers. Conflict shows its face as we interact with government agencies and in places where we do business. Conflict is alive in our social networks, our schools, our neighborhoods, and our communities. With change alive and breathing in all our work environments, it is most often the key source of conflict within a company. While the logistical and practical aspects of change are important to consider, the emotional side of change is often the key trigger. When we experience change, people feel a range of emotions, including uncertainty, fear, and even anger. These emotions can be particularly intense when the change affects our daily routines, roles, or relationships within the company. It is important for people leaders at all levels to understand the emotional impact of change and to be prepared to help their team members navigate through the emotions in order to minimize conflict and ensure a smooth transition. Keep in mind that the goal isn't to help them just survive through the change, but to thrive during the change. By understanding the most common emotions of change, leaders can better navigate teams through any transition. Anxiety is the most common emotion associated to change, a feeling of worry or unease caused by uncertainty and fear. It's natural to feel anxious during times of change; however, it's important to remember that anxiety is normal and should be addressed early on in the process. Resistance tends to show up in people who are comfortable with the status quo, and they do not want to take risks associated with something new. It is important to recognize this emotion and provide reasons why the proposed changes are beneficial for everyone involved. Anticipation is another emotion commonly associated to change. While some people may be resistant to change, others may look forward to it as an opportunity for growth or learning something new. This anticipation can create a positive energy within the group and helps them navigate through the transition period with ease. Disbelief is the next common emotion. During times of change, there may be those who don't believe that certain things will happen or that certain changes will take place due to their personal experiences or lack thereof in similar situations. It's important to address disbelief head on by providing facts and evidence that support why the proposed changes are necessary. Finally, there is excitement. This emotion is seen when people get excited about a new prospect or opportunity presented by the upcoming changes. Perhaps they see potential career advancements on the horizon or other opportunities that could come out of this transitional period. Although navigating through periods of change can be difficult, understanding how your team members may feel about it can make all the difference in making sure everyone adapts successfully and everyone comes out better on the other side.

#### Navigating Response to Change

Our second key learning to help best navigate our teams through challenging conflict that our changing environments brings is to understand the diverse range of responses and reactions your individual team members will have to change. There are four common ways that people tend to respond to change: flight, fight, freeze, and submit. Let's take a look at each. The flight response is characterized by a desire to avoid or escape the conflict altogether. While this may seem like an ineffective response, it's important for leaders to understand that the flight response is often a way for employees to protect themselves from feeling overwhelmed. As leaders, we will need to help the employee see the change as an opportunity rather than a threat and then give them time to adjust to the change, allowing them to slowly acclimatize to their new situation. The flight response is a natural reaction to change that is most often triggered by fear, anxiety, or uncertainty. Now the fight response is characterized by desire to confront the person or the situation head on. When you see emotions in your team escalate in this manner, you'll want to take a step back and assess the situation, determine if a team member is acting out of frustration or anger as both tends to trigger this type of response, or are they genuinely trying to resolve the issue? If it's the latter, then as leaders, we should try to deescalate the situation by remaining calm and level headed. Leaders should avoid getting drawn into a heated argument and instead focus on finding a resolution that will satisfy all parties involved. Now the freeze response is characterized by a feeling of helplessness or paralysis in the face of conflict. This response leaves team members or ourselves feeling overwhelmed or unsure of what to do to get through the reaction to the emotions they are feeling about the change. Leaders will need to pay close attention to team members who seem stagnant and provide constant encouragement or even dial up directional advice to help them through the phase. This response needs high attention as freezing in the face of conflict often makes the situation worse instead of better. Now the submit response is characterized by a desire to please others or avoid rocking the boat or when an individual recognizes that there is a change happening, but they resign themselves to the fact that they can't do anything to stop it. While submission may seem like an effective way to deal with conflict, it often backfires in the long run as it often leads to feelings of powerlessness and frustration, which, as we know, can quickly escalate into conflict. In order to deescalate the conflict, managers should avoid coming across as confrontational or dictatorial and instead focus on listening to employees concerns and explaining the rationale behind the change. This response will lead the team member agreeing with others even when they don't necessarily do so. Team members responding in this manner may need coaching from their leader to stand up for themselves and express their opinions more assertively

#### Strengthening Your Team's Change Capability

Our next strategy to help our teams best navigate through conflict that comes with changing work environments is a reminder to invest time and resources to elevate your employees' own change capabilities. By training and developing your team members with the right tools, they can gain a better understanding of how to identify challenging situations, communicate effectively with one another, and practice sound decision making when resolving disputes. As we all know, training helps employees build relationships with each other while improving their knowledge of how the organization operates and its goals. The more we aid them in leveling up their own skill set, the more easily they will adapt to changing circumstances without feeling overwhelmed by changes or unresolved conflict. In this course, I won't be sharing techniques to help level up your teams' capabilities as there are vast resources available to help bring this work alive. The more tools you have in your toolbox to help your teams build their own change capabilities, the greater success you'll find as a team navigating the challenge of change in your work environment. But let me pause here and recommend just a few courses here on Pluralsight's platform that include great resources to help you take a team through change. First, these authors are just a handful of some of my favorite authors here on this platform. You might want to pause the video, write down their names, or take a screenshot. Now, as a change leadership professional, I also have a larger offering of other courses here on this platform, all with complementary teaching skills and techniques to help you elevate your change and conflict leadership capabilities. These three courses, Generational Leadership: Adapting to the Changing Workplace, Embracing Change: Staying Agile in the Midst of Change, and Influencing without Authority: Becoming an Agent of Change, are each designed and created to help individual contributors and team members elevate their own personal change capabilities. Coming up in our next module, I'll be sharing conflict resolution tools and techniques. See you on the flip side. 4Resolving Conflict During Change27m 35s

#### Key Behaviors That Elevate Conflict Resolution Capabilities

Welcome back. We continue our learnings, discussing key behaviors that elevate conflict resolution capabilities. By regularly practicing key conflict resolution behaviors, we, as leaders, become more effective at bringing about constructive resolutions to conflict that occurs during change. I'll quickly review key leadership behaviors leaders rely on most often when working through conflict. Now we won't be going too deep into exploring how to improve each behavior. My goal for you as I review through these is for you to self‑identify one or two behaviors that you see as an area of opportunity. Then, realizing that this behavior is an essential ingredient in conflict resolution, to build a plan to learn more about how you can level up your behavior in that particular area. I'll now walk through the key leadership behaviors that are needed for successful conflict resolution. The first critical leadership behavior needed is self‑awareness. To develop self‑awareness, a manager or leader can try mindfulness practices such as meditation or journaling to become more attuned to their own emotions. Another way to improve self‑awareness is to seek feedback from colleagues and subordinates on how one's own actions and behaviors impact others. Self‑awareness is the foundation of effective leadership. Without it, we cannot understand or address the needs and perspectives of others. Now assertive communication is our next key leadership behavior. To improve assertive communication, a manager can try role playing with a colleague or taking a communication skills course. It can also be helpful to practice stating one's needs and boundaries in a direct but non‑confrontational manner. When I speak on this topic to live audiences, I often get the question of, how can you gauge if your communication is appropriately assertive and not overly aggressive? If you're interested in learning a bit more about the difference between aggressive, assertive, and passive workplace communication, I've added a one‑page resource guide in this exercise file associated to this course to help you. Assertive communication is the cornerstone of successful leadership. It allows us to clearly express our thoughts and needs while respecting the rights of others. Now, collaboration is our next key leadership skill. A common way to improve collaboration skills is by having managers facilitate team building activities or organizing group problem‑solving sessions. Seeking out opportunities to work on cross‑functional projects can also help a manager learn to effectively collaborate with a diverse group of individuals. Collaboration is a key to unlocking the full potential of a team. By working together, we can achieve greatness that no one person could accomplish alone. Now, problem‑solving skills is the next behavior. To improve problem‑solving skills, a leader or manager can try seeking out training and techniques such as brainstorming or design thinking. It can also be helpful to practice analyzing problems and identifying potential solutions with a colleague or mentor. Problem solving is the heart of leadership. It is through our ability to find creative solutions to challenges that we truly make a difference. Our next leadership behavior that is key is empathy. A manager can try/practice active listening as seeking to understand others' perspectives to level up their empathy. It can also be helpful to read about and learn about different cultures and ways of life to broaden one's understanding of others. Empathy is what separates good leaders from great ones. It allows us to connect with and understand the needs of those we lead. And yes, listening is certainly a skill, probably one most all leaders need to improve in. Am I right or am I right? To level up our listening skills, a leader can try making a conscious effort to fully focus on the speaker and avoid interrupting or planning a response while they are talking. It can also be helpful to practice reflecting back to the speaker what was said to demonstrate understanding and encourage open communication. Listening is not just a skill, it is a virtue. By truly listening to others, we shall respect and openness, and we pave the way for greater collaboration and understanding.

#### Identify Your Conflict Resolution Style

We all recognize and understand that conflict is a natural part of life and can occur in any personal or professional relationship. It's important to have effective conflict resolution skills in order to maintain healthy relationships and work towards finding mutually beneficial solutions. One key aspect of conflict resolution is being aware of your own personal style of resolving conflict. There are several different conflict resolution styles that individuals may use. Let's clip through these to refresh our understanding. First is a tendency to avoid conflict. This style involves avoiding the issue altogether, either by ignoring it or distancing oneself from the situation. While this may temporarily reduce tension, it does not address the root cause of the conflict and can lead to resentment or further misunderstandings in the future. The competing style involves trying to win the conflict by any means necessary, often at the expense of the other party's needs or concerns. This can escalate the conflict and may cause harm to the relationship. The accommodating style involves sacrificing one's owns needs and desires in order to appease the other party. While this may resolve the conflict in the short term, it can lead to resentment and power imbalances in the long term. Compromising. This style involves finding a middle ground where both parties make some concessions in order to reach a mutually acceptable solution. While this can be an effective way to resolve conflicts, it may not always result in a solution that fully satisfies both parties. Now collaborating is our next style. This style involves open and honest communicating with the other party to fully understand their perspective and then working together to find a win‑win solution that meets the needs of both parties. This is often the most effective conflict resolution style as it can lead to increased trust and understanding in the relationship. If you want additional resources to help you learn which style is your natural style, or if you desire to explore each style more in depth to better identify how to lean in and out of each style, my Pluralsight course, Understanding Workplace Conflict, has a deeper dive into more learnings around each style. I also provide a free assessment worksheet on my website, alicemeredith.com, under the Freebies tab that can be used to help you self‑identify which conflict management style is your natural style. Now it's important to be aware of and understand our own natural conflict resolution style, but more importantly is to learn how to lean in and out of all the styles to ensure you can address the specific needs of each conflict situation. No one's style is inherently better than the others, and it's often necessary to use a combination of styles in order to effectively resolve conflict. By being aware of your own style and actively working to improve your conflict resolution skills, you can build stronger, more fulfilling relationships in both your personal and professional life.

#### Evaluate Conflict Intelligence Levels

We all recognize that conflict resolution requires the ability to comprehend multiple perspectives, understand the motions of another person, and think critically about how to move forward. Conflict intelligence necessitates showing humility and objectivity while being able to remain calm in difficult situations. It involves being aware of our own biases and prejudices, as well as those of others so that we don't make assumptions or judgments. High‑conflict intelligence enables a person to learn from challenging conversations and create relationships that are based on mutual respect and trust. Now, conflict intelligence takes intentional focus and effort to develop; however, the rewards are worth it. Those who have the capability to think critically during disagreements are better prepared for future conflicts because they have already developed strategies for addressing issues without having to become defensive or aggressive. It's important for leaders to not only be aware of their own conflict intelligence, but also to help their team members understand and improve their own conflict intelligence. By helping team members understand their own strengths and areas for improvement in how they engage and react to conflict, leaders create a more harmonious and productive team environment. A key way to assess conflict intelligent levels, either our own or or as an exercise to help our team members better understand their own conflict intelligence, is through self‑reflection. Let's review some key questions that you can use for yourself or share with your team as an exercise to help them better analyze their behaviors and attitudes toward conflict. Questions to consider would be: How aware are you of your own triggers when responding during a dispute? How well do you consider the hot buttons and boundaries of others when engaging in conflict? How well can you attentively listen and not interrupt when someone expresses their feelings in a disagreement? And how well do you accept that not all your disagreements need to end with your opinions being correct? How do you respond when your actions or words unintentionally offend someone? Do you approach conflict intentionally, seeking ways to collaborate and cooperate? How often do you agree to disagree, but still show grace, respect, and understanding to the other party? Are you able to put aside your ego and not take things personally while in conflict? How often do you reflect on past mistakes and apply learnings from them? If you're interested in learning more about conflict intelligence, I've added a conflict intelligence assessment that expands on these questions and provides a scoring in the exercise files I recently spoke about, the exercise files associated to this course.

#### Conflict Mediation Tools

Now we'll look at some mediation tools and frameworks. We'll first explore what I've coined as the Leader's Conflict Discovery Guide. This tool is just a reminder of discovery questions leaders can ask members of their team who are engaged in a conflict with another member. Considering these questions will help leaders gather all the information about a brewing conflict prior determining the best resolution approach. The questions to consider would be: How did the conflict start? When did you first become aware of the concern? What were the actions and behaviors that contributed to the conflict? Who all is involved directly or indirectly? Do you have information that verifies what you know or saw? Who else do you believe knows about the situation? How have you tried to address the conflict so far? What are your goals and needs in this situation? How do you think the other party involved views the conflict? What have been the impacts of the conflict on you and the team? What do you think a resolution to the conflict should look like? Is there anything else you think I or other leaders should know about this conflict? These conflict discovery questions are key questions that I encourage all leaders who are about to engage in mediating any type of conflict to ensure they have all of this information answered in advanced.

#### VOMPing: An Effective 2-person Conflict Resolution Strategy

Conflicts between two people are a natural part of life, but they don't have to turn into major disputes. I often recommend to leaders I support to use the VOMPing technique. This technique helps work through any interpersonal conflict and helps find common ground between disputing parties. It's a good idea to familiarize your group with the VOMPing process before conflicts arise so that everyone is prepared to handle them when they do come up. That way, when an issue arises, everyone will have the tools to tackle it, and no one will be afraid to bring up a concern because they don't know how to address it. By having this common understanding, everyone in the group will feel more equipped to handle conflicts effectively. Now VOMPing consists of four stages, Vent, Own, eMpathize, and Plan. This process is best completed one on one in a private and respectful manner. Both parties must process and agree to all the steps, listening actively, and taking turns without interrupting. Now Vent represents the time that is given to each person to tell their side of the story completely uninterrupted. Encourage your team to use I statements to describe their own personal experience and be honest. Have them use concrete examples, express their motions and respectful to their partner, and to listen actively and do not interrupt while the other party is speaking. Own reminds each person to take ownership of their words, actions, attitudes, and acknowledges their role in the conflict. Ensure that both parties are motivated to clarify and resolve the problem. Taking ownership helps to extinguish hostility and fosters personal integrity. Empathize is where we encourage those involved to see things from the other person's perspective and understand their experience and recognize and respect the emotions in the other parties. Empathizing helps to clarify differences, and it elevates the value in different perspectives while bringing people closer together. The Planning stage is where the parties identify concrete actions and agreements to address the issue and solve the problem. This is where the parties find common ground and agree on action plans that can be revised as needed. Action plans provide a basis for accountability and help to move both parties forward. As you can clearly tell, VOMPing is a simple plan, yet very effective, especially if the team is fully aware that this is how conflict will be resolved. The first time I introduced this plan to one of my teams, I noticed that within a short period of time, team members started using the steps on their own and quickly became self‑sufficient in solving their own disputes and disagreements. Basically, rolling out a conflict resolution like this is just giving your team the tools to guide them to improve their own conflict intelligence skill set, certainly a win‑win technique.

#### Effective Conflict Resolution Approaches

There are several approaches and methods that can be used to address and resolve conflict in the workplace. Let's review each one. First is the open‑door policy. This approach involves creating an environment where employees feel comfortable discussing issues and differences that may arise in the workplace. This is an effective first step towards conflict resolution. Now, ombudspersons are impartial managers who provide confidential assistance to staff and management in order to resolve work‑related disputes. They may serve as mediators, fact finders, consultants, or change agents. Internal peer mediation uses designated employees as mediators to help resolve conflicts. Some organizations use this process passionately. This method is often used to address non‑statutory issues such as unfairness. The success of this approach depends on the careful selection of peer mediators with strong communication skills. Professional mediators are independent third‑party mediators who are not connected with the organization and assist the primary parties through a formal mediation process. Mediation can provide a structured, unbiased approach to conflict resolution. Peer review and employee appeals process is sometimes used by manufacturing organizations to avoid a union process. The goal is to resolve employee disputes internally whenever possible. Now, using executive panels is a method that allows employees to present their claims to a panel of senior executives who are expected to be objective and sympathetic. In addition to these approaches, tools such as questionnaires, activities, and assessments can also be helpful in resolving conflicts by providing insights and skills to employees. Let's now explore when each approach might be used. The open‑door policy might be used when an employee has a small issue or concern that they want to discuss with their manager, such as a misunderstanding or disagreement with a coworker. Ombudspersons might be used when an employee has a larger issue or concern that they feel uncomfortable discussing with their manager or when there's a power imbalance between the employee and their manager. Now, internal peer mediation might be used when there's a conflict between two employees and they are unable to resolve the issue themselves, and they would like the help of a neutral party to facilitate a resolution. Professional mediators might be used when there is a significant or complex conflict that requires the expertise and objectivity of an outsider. Peer review and employee appeals might be used when an employee is dissatisfied with the decision made by their manager, and they would like the opportunity to have their case reviewed by their peers. Executive panels are most often used when there is a significant issue or concern that requires attention of senior leadership. And questionnaire activities and assessments might be used when an organization wants to proactively address conflict and improve communication and conflict resolution skills among its employees. Conflict has been identified as one of the engines of evolution. It is through conflict that we are able to learn and progress

#### Mediation Methods for Mending Conflict

As a leader or support leader, such as in human resources or employee relations, you'll find yourself in a position when you'll be brought in to mediate conflict. Mediation involves bringing in an unbiased third party. The key here is unbiased, right? If prior to mediating you feel yourself leaning to one side or the other, I would excuse yourself and invite a peer or another party in to ensure neutrality. I'm sure we all understand the importance of third‑party mediation only occurring after the parties have attempted to resolve the conflict on their own. Mediation can be formal or informal. Formal would be using one of the approaches we just reviewed, and informal could be as simple as sitting with the impacted employees over the lunch hour and facilitating a casual conversation. It's essential that as a leader acting in the role of mediator to recognize that mediators do not make decisions for the parties. Their role is to help the parties work together and reach their own agreement. All leaders must remember that when you put on your mediator hat, your decision‑making hat comes off. There are several different approaches to mediation, each one with its own unique focus and techniques. Each type of mediation has its own strengths and may be best suited to specific types of conflict. As I review each, think through situations in your work environment where each method might be the most effective. Facilitative mediation involves the mediator facilitating communication and negotiating between the parties in conflict, but not imposing any solutions. The mediator helps the parties identify their interests and needs and explore options for resolution. This type of mediation might be best used in situations where the parties are open to finding a mutually beneficial resolution and are willing to work together to explore options. Evaluative mediation involves a mediator providing their own assessment of the situation and offering suggestions for resolution. The mediator may also provide information and feedback to help the parties reach a resolution. This type of mediation might be best used in situations where the parties are at an impasse and need help coming to a resolution. The mediator's assessment and suggestions can help move the parties forward. Transformative mediation focuses on the parties in conflict transforming their relationship and resolving underlying issues. The mediator helps the parties communicate and address and understand each other's perspectives and encourages them to take responsibility for their actions. This type of mediation might be best used in situations where there are underlying issues causing the conflict and the parties want to work on improving their relationship. Restorative justice mediation is often used in cases of harm or wrongdoing and focuses on repairing the harm and restoring relationships. The mediator helps the parties involved understand the impact of their actions and develop a plan for repair and reconciliation. This type of mediation might be best used where the goal is to repair the harm and restore relationships. Hybrid mediation combines elements of different mediation styles, such as facilitative and evaluative approaches. The mediator may use a variety of techniques depending on the specific needs and goals of the party involved. This type of mediation might be best used in situations where a combination of approaches is needed to address the specific needs and goals of the parties involved.

#### Tried and True Learnings

In closing, I want to leave you with four tips, ones I reference as tried and true learnings, key points that continually show positive payback when managing workplace conflict. First, take action immediately. If the situation doesn't need your assistance, encourage those involved to work through their concerns with others as simple, transparent discussion can often lead to resolution and prevent situations from escalating and damaging team morale, productivity, and relationships. Avoid triangulation. This happens when someone has an issue with one person, but goes to someone else, like a manager, to resolve it for them. This can waste others' time and prolong the time needed to find resolution. As a leader, it's your responsibility to help mediate conflict, but only when necessary. Encourage your employees to go directly to the person they have an issue with to resolve their concerns, unless harassment, discrimination, or a harmful action was involved. And my next tip is to use a no penalty approach when possible. With less experienced employees, conflict can escalate if they feel that the loser of the dispute will receive negative consequences. The no penalty approach avoids finger‑pointing and defensive attitudes and helps to minimize any consequences. As a manager, your goal should be to find a resolution and avoid similar situations in the future while also identifying what needs to be improved in the system, culture, or process to benefit the entire team. Now, avoid taking sides, right? As we've already discussed, when acting as a mediator, it's essential to ensure that neither party feels favored over the other. This helps to ensure that the resolution is fair and unbiased. We all recognize that managing conflict effectively is not always easy. It requires patience, effort, and intentional focus. The ideas and tools I shared with you here in this course are formats, frameworks, and best practices, ones I invite you to review in reference again next time you need to lean in and help your team find resolution to conflict that might be brewing in your work environment. Without conflict, teams become stagnant, and when managed effectively, the changes brought about by conflict can be positive and constructive. Just as we've been learning, conflict is certainly not something to shy away from or avoid. I invite you to take a purposeful approach the next time you need to lean in to minimize, navigate, or resolve conflict. This on‑purpose approach will initiate greater opportunity and growth for ourselves, our team, and our company. Well, that wraps up our learnings. Thank you for including me on your journey of learning. If you'd like to be notified as I launch new courses or update my existing courses on the Pluralsight platform, bounce over to my author page and hit the Follow button. And if you'd like to leave a review after watching any of Pluralsight's great courses, you can always bounce back to the course page and leave a quick review. All Pluralsight authors appreciate when viewers leave their thoughts and feedback on their course. And again, I invite you to connect with me on social media or visit my website for additional learnings and resources to support your work of leading change. Life is a journey of learning. Keep learning my friends.